climate recovered from governor
Connolly's wrist wound was
indistinguishable from the compensation
of the lead in a nearly hole bullet
found at Parkland Hospital that fact
alone would lend strong support to the
single Bullet theory do you still have
that view to some extent that would be
true but in light of my new knowledge
about the trajectory particularly the
vertical trajectory with the upward
course through the body then that
statement would be much less definitive
much less positive than it was as
expressed by me in that article a few
years ago so if in other words there
worked ago so if in other words there
were such evidence it would make a
substantial impact upon your analysis of
the improbability of the single Bullet
theory except that of course there's
still the question of the positioning of
the bodies in the car is that accurate
extensive detailed complete neutron
activation analysis of all the bullets
and all the fragments including those
which had not been removed including the
one which in governor Connolly's left
thigh
including the one which I understand
according to sworn affidavits was
removed from the governor's chest given
to a nurse who gave it to a policeman
who gave it to an FBI agent if all of
those things were done mr. corn well
that I would be prepared to discuss the
impact of the naa findings on the single
Bullet theory in the absence of all naa
tests I am not prepared to accept a
piecemeal presentation of a few tests
that some people in some government
agencies felt could be done and others
which were not necessarily which would
not necessarily have to be performed I
have no further questions Thank You MIDI
at this time we'll operate under the
five-minute rule starting with the chair
dr. Wecht you were one of a panel of
nine eminently qualified forensic
pathologists that correct yes sir I
thank you for the characterization I I
was one of nine yes and you do not
quarrel with my categorization of them
the other eight as being eminently
qualified do you know now with all of
you being men of your profession in
which you're certainly jealous of your
reputation in the field is there any
reason why these other eight men would
take the position they have taken based
on anything other than medical
certification mr. chairman you would
have to ask them that question I do not
mean to be either evasive and certainly
not disrespectful but it would be
presumptuous of me to speculate on that
there are some things involving some
present and former professional
relationships and things between some of
them and some people who have served on
previous panels in fact two of the
members of this panel have been
previously involved one under the
auspices of CBS with the government's
implied permission and delight if not
expressed sponsorship and another one
with the Rockefeller Commission and
there are things of this nature but you
would have to to ask them about whatever
particular motivations or thoughts they
may have I can only do my very best sir
to present to you the evidence says I
have interpreted it and give you my
conclusions and opinions therefrom well
project helped me in this respect
assuming that I'm the average American
citizen who has been sitting out here
today and listening to these hearings
and viewing it on television as they are
across the country and when they hear
the testimony as it has been reflected
through dr. Baden of the eight other
forensic pathologists as related to your
testimony tell me what should the
average American believe in terms of the
medical evidence that has been presented
here today should they believe them or
should they believe you well I would
give anything within reason to be able
to find out what what people who have
been able to take the afternoon off and
observe these hearings believe I know
that as of 1975 in a national poll
conducted by CBS certainly an agency
which has not been particularly
sympathetic to the critic side of this
business about eighty-five percent of
the American public was found to
disagree to reject one or more major
conclusions of the wiring Commission
report I am also mindful the fact that
in numerous other national surveys
conducted by top pollsters in the past
twelve fifteen years more than 50
percent of the American public has
always expressed negative feelings
concerning the wiring Commission report
as as I am aware of your distinguished
professional reputation prior to
becoming a member of Congress as a trial
attorney the idea of the the reality of
forensic scientists disagreeing in a
court of law
is of course nothing that is foreign to
you I have witnessed it and participated
in it many times the numerical
superiority that my eight colleagues
have over me is something that I cannot
reflect upon it is in your hands I have
been in that position I can only hope
you'll excuse the possible seeming lack
of modesty that just may be and the
number fits anyway with nine people that
just maybe this might be analogous to a
Supreme Court justice that sometime in
the past having expressed a dissent
which in ten twenty or thirty years
became the law of the land I
hope sir that may be the case here today
I asked some other questions but my time
has expired
gentleman from Ohio mr. Devine Thank You
mr. chairman I have no questions I just
say to dr. week that I think you would
probably agree that reasonable men of
credibility on the same set of facts can
reach different conclusions without
questioning the motives of the others
isn't that true yes sir I do when there
are reasonable differences of facts
based upon interpretations when things
relate to hard physical reality then sir
I cannot go along with that statement
you don't say that this is an exact
science what we're talking about there
I believe sir such things as straight
lines in relationship to horizontal and
vertical trajectories positions of two
human beings measurements of these
approver film the timing of it the
timing of the test-firing of the
mannequin or weapon I believe sir that
these things fall very much into the
realm of the hard physical sciences as
opposed to the kinds of things that we
as physicians are often involved in the
heart attack follow the emotional or
physiological stress did the cancer come
about after the blow to the breast those
are in the realm of speculation and
reasonable differences what I in my in
my opinion I I think that the evidence
that has been discussed today the
physical measurements of the laws of
mathematics of physics and so on I
believe sir that these do not fall
within the realm of reasonable
differences of opinion I'm sure that the
other members of your panel would
disagree with your hand yes sir I'm sure
they would scientist inspired the
gentleman from district columbia mr.
Conroy
Jim my questions at this time Thank You
chairman dr. work thank of your
testimony you certainly articulated the
the issue before us today rather well
I'd like to pursue a one area of
questioning with you if I could and the
time allotted to me your expertise as is
as a pathologist that is that is your
area of expertise what I'm getting at is
Renata you don't have an expertise in
photo analysis it's really as a
pathologist isn't that correct
yes sir except to the extent that
photography studying of wounds and
things of that nature are related to the
practice of forensic pathology aside
from the the condition of C III 99 the
bullet I gathered from your testimony
that many of your conclusions regarding
the single Bullet theory rest to a large
extent on the Zapruder film is that a
fair assessment yes I would say that the
Supporter film is very important for
instance as for the positions of both
President Kennedy and governor Connally
in the car the appearances of both
at various frames in the film footage
and so forth yes sir what I'm trying to
suggest by this line of questioning is
that your expertise using photographs
and so forth rests on making assessments
of cadavers of after the fact
circumstances looking at wounds or
photographs of wounds after a shooting a
killing has occurred is that correct
generally speaking generally speaking or
so happens that I do a great degree of
medical legal consultation work in all
kinds of personal injury actions medical
malpractice products liability workman's
compensation thousands of cases in the
past decade and a half and
I've had an opportunity and I'm called
upon quite frequently to become involved
in matters of medical legal forensic
scientific nature which may not
necessarily be related to a dead body oh
I can recall all of that what I'm
getting at is this aside from the
Zapruder film and I might suggest the
shooting of Jack Ruby have you ever
personally witnessed a killing or have
you ever had the opportunity to view
film footage of an actual killing
shootings are a shooting I have never
seen a killing by a human being by
shooting I have the same footage yes sir
to what extent I mean how many
occurrences how many different shootings
have you ever seen actual shootings of a
human being rough ballpark figured I
might find it not not a not a great
number yes several yes I think different
film strips in various cases
documentaries to what to what extent is
there a body of medical knowledge with
regard to the predictable movements
predictable movements of a human body
and Shop some it depends on the nature
of the weapon the ammunition the
position of the body the nature and
extent of the wounds the physical
circumstances that the body is in and so
on and these are things of course that
we as forensic pathologists are called
upon to reconstruct in a retrospective
fashion in a fair number of cases I
would say that it definitely could not
be considered as a hard physical science
there are biological variations no
question okay I wonder if you I wonder
if you might refresh my memory as to the
various frames and the Zapruder film you
seem to have a pretty good working
knowledge of the various numbers of
frames
the frame I want to get at is the frame
where you see first of all governor
Connally showing appearances of being
shot what frame was that dude that was
frame Zapruder 237 I believe maybe 230 I
think 237 I do not know your exhibit
number but I think was a pro tour 237
and how many frames after that was the
first appearances of President Kennedy
showing evidence of being shot excuse me
sir well in the head wound that was
Zapruder frame 313 the earlier one of
the president emerging from behind the
Stemmons freeway sign I think that was
225 Zapruder 225 so when we first see
the president so that's then about 12
frames of preview that we see the
president's reaction what I'm what I'm
getting at here is that given the fact
that there is a very limited amount of
medical knowledge with regard to body
movements or predictable body movements
when an individual is shot and given the
fact that there are apparently only one
or two or three four or five instances
where you've had the opportunity to
actually see film footage of someone
being shot given the fact that your
expertise is as a pathologist and not as
a photo analyst
how can you state conclusively as you do
aside from the appearance of $3.99 and
others that in fact there was not a
single Bullet theory given the fact that
there is this limited amount of
knowledge oh that's very easy sir in
this case the fact the pattern that you
set forth would indeed be extremely
applicable for instance to the head
wound you know what about the president
did he move backwards
how could he move backwards India move
forwards and forward and so on that
indeed is something that I've always
said I can't be sure of whether it was
up his thought in his some other
neuromuscular reaction or whatever but
given the wound
in the president's back and knowing its
trajectory and knowing that it did not
strike bone and knowing it was moving
slightly upward it doesn't make any
difference sir what we we may postulate
about mr. Kennedy's or mr. Connelly's
movements we know in looking at the
pictures and from their eyewitness
testimony and from all the bystanders
and everybody we know that there's just
no way in the world the devil did I
understand your statement it doesn't
make any difference no sir not in this
case not in this case because we have
the bullet moving upward through
President Kennedy and then moving
downward at a 25 degree angle of
declination there's just no way in the
world that the bullet could have done
that I have never heard an exclamation
from my colleagues they just come back
to the plausibility argument understood
me I was really I was using your
testimony that that that those various
frames and body movements were evidence
part of the evidence to indicate that it
would be impossible for a single bullet
to pass through both individuals yes sir
Barr but the witness can answer finishes
hands thank you mr. Dodd I apologize not
understanding your question I I agree
with what you just said and that is
evidence that clearly demonstrates to me
that it was impossible for $3.99 to have
done what is attributed to it under the
single Bullet theory thank miss Jim
gentleman from Tennessee mr. Ford Thank
You mr. chairman I don't have one
question but doctor in supporting your
theory somewhat different from the panel
the spokesman dr. Madden he made the
point that their findings were based
upon the lack of any evidence to support
any other possible alternative tell me
have you been privy of any other
information outside of the information
that this panel has been reviewing for
some time no sir other than what mr.
Stokes had asked me about before that
examination of the primary copy of the
Zapruder film at Life magazine in 1966
nothing else I
also hope that I have kept more of an
open mind and have also recognized that
it is not my responsibility I do not
mean that I am disinterested or
unmindful of the significance but it is
not my responsibility to retroactively
Lee justify and defend the investigation
that was done which I think was
extremely superficial and sloppy inept
incomplete incompetent in many respects
not only in the part of the pathologist
who did this horribly inadequate medical
legal autopsy but in the part of many
other people it's the kind of
examination that would not be tolerated
in a routine murder case by a good crew
of homicide detectives in most major
cities of America on anybody just a
plain ordinary citizen let alone a
president so I don't get blocked that
mr. Ford by the fact that I can't answer
everything I'm fast to admit that I
can't answer everything although on one
of the sketches which we then didn't
have a chance to get into one that I had
had mr. Purdy the request of mr. Purdy
to blow up I show that that bullet that
went through President Kennedy's neck
could have continued on over the left
side of the court and I would like to
say sir that that diagram was made years
ago before I knew for certain that there
was an upward trajectory from the back
to the neck with an upward trajectory
that suggestion that I made years ago
now in my mind assumes much greater
reality I don't have any further
questions mr. Chairman I yield at that
time time of gentleman has expired the
gentleman from Connecticut mr. McKinney
this committee has obviously got Sydnor
and evaluate two very extremely
different positions so and looking at
your conclusions if you were to take the
three elements the trajectory of the
bullet the condition of the bullet or
the film which would you say in your
hypothesis is the most important
part of that picture most important
issue well miss mckinny the trajectory
is in to some degree related to the
Zapruder film to some degree if I had to
list those in priority sir I probably
would say the trajectory would be number
one because these are to me straight
line measurements calculations the
condition of the bullet number two and
these are proto film which I must tie in
back to to the trajectories then as
number three although that that's hard
to do so her but I on the spur of the
moment that lists them in that on a
trajectory point then it's your opinion
that there's no way that the president
could have been in any kind of a
position when he was behind that sign
that would have allowed the bullet to go
from low to high rear to the front and
still have it in line to hit governor
Connally no sir not at the point where
it struck governor Connally and not with
the angle of declination vetted
proceeded on through the governor may I
just add that very briefly mr. McKinney
of course something that we all realize
but but I would like to have on the
record that for all practical purposes
when the bullet struck President Kennedy
it was striking governor Connally I mean
the 2,000 feet per second I know you
know it's it's it's in calculus the kind
of a time that that you and I with with
our reflexes and our speech and our
watches can't even measure so all of
that happened in in an infinitesimal
moment the bullet is through the
president then through John Connally I
cannot possibly imagine anything and
I've never heard anybody who was there
in the car behind the car the motorcycle
policeman and so on ever suggested
something of a dramatic nature and it
would have had to have been dramatic had
occurred these are the physical
relationships of those two men at that
precise fraction of a second behind
Cummings freeway sign were you aware the
fact that the radiologists for the
committee that examined the x-rays of
the president in the x-rays of governor
Connally didn't find any metal chips or
fragments in President Kennedy's neck or
in governor Connolly's chest I'm aware
of the former sir and I believe the
latter too insofar as the radiologist is
concerned with regard to the latter
governor Connolly's chest I am mindful
of information that I do not recall from
our panel but which I'm aware of I think
from Earl gold says call a reporter in
Dallas and from other news media picked
it up about a piece of metal that
supposedly was removed from governor
Connolly's chest given by a nurse to a
Dallas policeman standing outside who
then gave it to an FBI agent have you
ever seen any proof of this I seem to
recall mr. Mackenna in his vague that
there was some language if not a some
kind of documentation of of the receipt
that was given to the policeman by the
FBI agent butBut I'm big on that sir but
if it were true that there were no
traces of metal found in either one of
these areas that could explain the
condition of the bullet couldn't it no
sir because then after emerging from the
chest it would have had to have struck
the wrist and as I've already explained
I do not believe that it would have been
possible to have caused that comminuted
fracture and to have emerged in the
pristine condition and then of course I
must again come back to the trajectory
that even with the absence of metal in
the president's neck and the governor's
chest there's no way that that same
bullet could have gone through those two
portions of the anatomies of the two
gentlemen thank you very much doctor
time' gentleman has expired Jennifer
Indiana mr. pytheas German doctor if the
acoustical tests set up figs were to set
up the exact time of the shot and if it
were possible to determine through photo
analysis the precise alignment of the
bodies and these two things turned out
to be consistent with a single Bullet
theory would you change your views the
qu stiix test and more knowledge of the
physical relationship with the two men
both of which if I understand your
question sir would permit physically
yeah the the passage of the bullet in
the fashion that is attributed to it I
would say that such information would go
a long way in making me doubt my
long-held beliefs and that's all I would
ask beyond that is a couple of simple
experimental studies with the shooting
of this kind of ammunition through some
bones and that that would do it for me
thank you
know you talked about the second
synchronized simultaneously fired shot
possibility remote remote possibility
can't we as a panel dismiss this out of
hand for these two reasons first if it
went in the president's head and there's
no exit wound somewhere else it surely
would have shown up on an x-ray
somewhere in the brain area oh yes if it
had been a penetrating missile mr.
Pythian and that's why I referred to
frangible type ammunition which would
not have any which would not have had
any degree of in-depth penetration and
finally be
with the bullet itself that penetrated
governor Connolly's wrist
would it have to have gone through the
bone to fracture it I believe with this
kind of community fracture sir
yes they would have had to have gone
through the bone I have heard arguments
advanced in our discussions and prior to
that I believe that the bullet just
traversing the soft tissues of the wrist
would have produced that kind of
fracture I believe not except that at
all I'm not very good at medical
analysis and that's why we have you if
the book if the bullet went through the
bone wouldn't there have to be some sort
of a hole where it went through or the
fracture itself would have to be wide
enough to let the bullet go through oh
that's only unless it was a glancing
blow yes sir if if the bullet went
through more or less in the middle of
the bone then there might be a hole but
the bullet would not have had to have
gone through directly through the mid
portion a passageway with the bullet
striking some portion of the bone could
produce that kind of cognitive fracture
it would not have to leave a hole as a
matter of fact very often they will not
leave precise holes but will cause
shattering of bones I do not believe
such shattering we refer by a proximal
passage of the bullet without some
direct contact with a bone uh evidences
evidence becomes available that the
fragment removed from governor Carly's
wrist matches si 399 wouldn't this tend
to impair your interpretation I believe
as I had expressed previously mr. corn
well that it would certainly be some
reason to pause for further
reconsideration but the value of neutron
activation analysis would only be a
probative value in this case in my
opinion if na8 studies were done on all
the bullets and the bullet fragments
that are available or that could be made
available with relative with relative
ease and finally mr. chairman my I
didn't quite understand your response to
congressman Dodd but
I believe I understood the gist of it
and that is that that your
interpretation presented here today
is really based on on other than
forensic pathological evidence isn't
that isn't that generally true because
we're talking about photographic
alignment of bodies and things that have
really nothing to do with with the
actual physical evidence taken either
photos of the body or medical
examinations of the body I would not be
able to accept that characterization
because in fact the kinds of things that
we're dealing with here arise in many
homicide investigations the study of
photographs the study of wounds the
study of a physical relationship of
bodies to inanimate objects and to other
people
eyewitness testimony depositions direct
interviews with people and so on the
only thing that I haven't had these are
not medical things are they doctor well
what I'm trying to say sir is they all
fall within the purview indeed of a
functioning practical forensic
pathologist and and I would consider
them yes within my realm and within the
realm of any other forensic pathologist
overall review an evaluation of a case
and it's the kind of thing that I've
done many times I'm sure my colleagues
have - Thank You mr. chairman have no
further questions
okay all right time of gentleman has
expired and gentleman from Michigan mr.
Sawyer yes thank you was chairman just a
just a few questions as I as I get I was
going to ask you what your theory was of
what happened to the other bullet that
hit one of these people if it wasn't
found in the car in no place it was hit
but I deduced from an answer you gave to
one of the other questions that your
view is that it passed over the top of
the car after going through the
president's back and neck I think sir
that that is a very real possibility yes
then then your theory is it must have
been fired from the street no sir
from a position much lower than the
sixth floor if it were in the Texas
schoolbook depository building and
that's the possibility that I do
consider it would have been from a lower
floor you you would see sir if you had
the entire physical terrain laid out for
you but you would be able to get that
kind of a trajectory say when I've been
there so I'm familiar with it the are
you you also used the figure 2,000 feet
per second is that the correct velocity
of the mannlicher-carcano I think I've
seen 1980 and 2000 that's that's I would
have thought from looking at it they'd
be faster than that but I I think
sometimes I've seen left the 2100 but I
don't think I've ever seen it any higher
than that
have you ever seen have you ever seen
any studies that show what a bullet does
if it hits just a twig as far as its
course and its behavior and that's not
controlled study sir I've seen some
bullets that have struck twigs but but I
have not seen or conducted experiments
along those lines well I have seen
studies that show that they go all Iraq
behaviors just by striking a small twig
in honey studies really is what they
were you've never seen such no sir not
such studies I do not express here the
opinion that there is definitive
evidence that that the bullet struck a
twig I raised that or considered it as a
possibility I really think that it is
more likely that the bullet